Machine Learning in Python (ML)

The start to everything

Jake Parbs japarbs@42.us.org

Summary: Intro to multiple ML models, methods and use cases.

Contents:
1. About the course
2. Coursera Setup
3. Intoduction to Machine Learning
4. Linear and Non-Linear Regression
5. K-Nearest Neighbors
6. Evaluation Metrics in Classification
7. Decision Trees
8. Logistic Regression
9. Support Vector Machine

Chapter 1
About the course...

This will be a relativity fast paced look into Machine Learning and a bunch of models. With the help of Coursera (Awesome website) and your peers to bounce off of, You will dive into the world of Machine Learning and learn about a bunch of practices, models, use cases, and some other things along the way. This course will be using weeks 1 though 3 to of Machine Learning with Python by IBM on Coursera. If you enjoy this course and Machine Learning I highly encourage you to complete the rest of the course after we've finished everything here.

This course will assume you know basic Python syntax. The Coursera course has working practice code via online Jupyter Notebooks.

Chapter 2
Coursera Setup

You will need to create a account in order to use Coursera. It's the same as any other web sign up and is 100% free. You don't need to get a certificate. Once you've done that, enroll into the course. Once in the course you should be brought to the overview page. Now we can get into the swing of things!

Since we are using a free version of the Coursera course. We will not be using the Quizes that are built into the curriculum. However do feel free to use the in-video question pop ups to make sure you understand the topic if you wish!

Chapter 3
Introduction to Machine Learning

In week 1 of IBM's course. There are a series of videos that will explain what machine learning is and some terminology within the MKL field. Answer the following questions in a .txt file.

Ex00:
	1. What is Machine Learning as a technology and what are the problems it's meant to address?

	2. How does Machine Learning, learn?

	3. What are the main differences of Supervised learning and Unsupervised learning?

Chapter 4
Linear and Non-Linear Regression

In week 2 there are videos that will explain Linear, Multiple Linear, and Non-Linear regression models.

Ex00: Linear Regression
	- Give a brief explanation on how the Linear Regression model works.

Ex01: Multiple Linear Regression

Ex02: Non-Linear Regression
	- 

Chapter 5
K-Nearest Neighbors

Ex00:
	- Give a brief explanation on how the KNN model works.

	- How to you decide on the correct K?

Chapter 6
Evaluation Metrics in Classification

Classification Accuracy
Jaccard Index
Confusion Matrix
Log Loss

Chapter 7
Decision Trees

Ex00:
	- Give a brief explanation on how the Decision Trees model works.

	- What is entropy in the context of Decision Trees?
Chapter 8
Logistic Regression

Ex00:
	- What are the differences between Logistic Regression and Linear Regression?

Chapter 9
Support Vector Machine

Ex00:
	- Give a brief explanation on how the Support Vector Machine model works.

	- What is a hyper plane?