Machine Learning in Python (ML)

The start to everything

Jake Parbs japarbs@42.us.org

Summary: Intro to Linear and Non-Linear models, methods and getting started.

Contents:
1. About the course
2. Coursera Setup
3. Intoduction to Machine Learning
4. Linear and Non-Linear Regression
5. Showcase Project Setup
6. Showcase Project

Foreword

Machine Learning is such a massive field, it's everywhere and you use it everyday. From spam filters, Price matching and path finding GPS to Robots, Theoretical research and more. Machine Learning is far more vast than what most people realize it is. The simple Machine Learning models that you're going to learn in this course are the building blocks to the cutting edge technology we have today and is only scratching the surface of the power of ML technology. Without ML so many technologies wouldn't be possible due to their scale and the flexibility some systems need. You might not think much of it at first but every single social media site, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, Instagram are all powered by Machine Learning in some kind of way. They just wouldn't function the same way as today due to their scale and would require much more brain power to program and maintain.

(Foreword: Should be informative and get the kids interested in ML as a whole. Show this is the starting point)
If possible make the Foreword about Linear Regression.
1 page max & have a picture.
(Will be in template)

Chapter 1
About the course

This course will be using Coursera for the learning material. Patrice and learn code in the environments that the Coursera course is using via cloud hosted Jupyter Notebooks that contain working practice code. Then going into a local environment that you will setup and putting your knowledge to practice in a showcase project to help harden your understanding. This is designed to work in a peer to peer environment and will assume you know basic Python syntax. The Coursera course is called "Machine Learning with Python" by IBM.

This course will assume you know basic Python syntax. The Coursera course has working practice code via online Jupyter Notebooks.

Chapter 2
Coursera Setup

You will need to create a account in order to use Coursera. It's the same as any other web sign up and is 100% free. Once you've done that, enroll into the course. Once in the course you should be brought to the overview page. Now we can get into the swing of things!

We will not be using the Quizzes that are built into the curriculum on Coursera. However do feel free to use the in-video questions to make sure you understand the topic!

Chapter 3
Introduction to Machine Learning

In week 1 of IBM's course. There are a series of videos that will explain what machine learning is and some terminology within the ML field.

Ex00:
	https://www.coursera.org/learn/machine-learning-with-python/lecture/GjNfa/welcome

Chapter 4
Linear & Non-Linear Regression

In week 2 there are videos that will explain Linear, Multiple Linear and Non-Linear regression models.

Ex00: Linear Regression
	https://www.coursera.org/learn/machine-learning-with-python/lecture/AVIIM/introduction-to-regression

Ex01: Multiple Linear Regression 
	https://www.coursera.org/learn/machine-learning-with-python/lecture/0y8Cq/multiple-linear-regression

Ex02: Non-Linear Regression
	https://www.coursera.org/learn/machine-learning-with-python/lecture/HxiuD/non-linear-regression


Chapter 5
Showcase Project Setup

This showcase project is for you to practice what you just learned for Linear Regression and learn how to setup your own environment.
During your time with Machine Learning in Coursera. You've been using the Jypter notebooks IBM hosts for practicing code. Now it is time for you to create your own environment to do this final project!

Anaconda:
		Anaconda is a platform that has tons and tons of tools for Machine learning and in python in general. Great for Python version and package control and a bunch of other things. For now however we just want to use it to have our own development environment.
		Download Anaconda for Python 3.7 here: https://www.anaconda.com/distribution/ 
		Anaconda will take a while to download and install. Lets install Pycharm as we wait.

Pycharm:
		You'll also need an IDE to develop in. I recommend Pycharm but you can use another IDE if you prefer. Pycharm does however have built-in support for Anaconda environments. You can download Pycharm here (Download Community): https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/download/#section=mac

Packages:
		Next we'll need to install our packages in order to actually do Machine Learning. With Anaconda installed we can now create our environment and install all needed packages in a Unix terminal. The following command will install a Conda environment named "ml_env" in Python 3.7
		-conda create -n ml_env python=3.7

		This command will then activate the Conda environment and allow us to configure it.
		-conda activate ml_env

		Now that the environment is installed and selected, run the following commands to install our packages.
		-pip install numpy
		-pip install pandas
		-pip install sklearn
		-pip install matplotlib

		Now that we have all packages installed and everything setup. We're ready to start developing. Open Pycharm and create a new project and select the conda environment you've just created.

Chapter 6
Showcase Project

	ex00:
		Required Files: showcase.py
		Create a showcase project with this dataset showing the linear relation of Engine Size and Fuel Consumption(Highway) with matplotlib with a line of best fit. And a Linear Regression model to predict outside of dataset cases.

		Run the following command to download the dataset.
		-wget -O FuelConsumption.csv https://s3-api.us-geo.objectstorage.softlayer.net/cf-courses-data/CognitiveClass/ML0101ENv3/labs/FuelConsumptionCo2.csv

		If you don't have wget then run this command.
		-brew install wget

		<reminder> Use the Jypter notebooks if you're lost!